Blank
Gold's boom-and-bust nature proves you shouldn't worry about what happens day to day as a long-term investor...
Don't Let Gold's Sell-Off Fool You – The Boom Isn't Over
By Brett Eversole
"Gold is headed to $8,000 an ounce," I told the audience in Las Vegas last month.
I had 30 minutes on stage at the annual Stansberry Conference. I shared my market outlook, explaining why stocks are headed higher. But for the biggest gains, I told the audience that gold and other precious metals were the best bet.
Unfortunately, my timing wasn't ideal...
You see, gold was up about $1,000 an ounce over the prior two months. It had moved too far, too fast. And I warned the crowd that we were due for a correction... before the rally continues and gold reaches higher heights.
And that correction began immediately. The day after I shared my message, gold suffered its worst one-day fall since 2020, dropping 5.3%.
It was a painful yet overdue sell-off. But it doesn't mean the gold boom is dead. History tells us the opposite.
In fact, since 2000, this kind of painful one-day sell-off has led to strong one-year rallies. And that means you shouldn't give up on gold just yet.
Let me explain...
Recommended Links:
Supercharge Your Returns by 500% or More?
The Federal Reserve has just opened the most profitable 12-month window for the stock market in decades. And today, Louis Navellier, Eric Fry, and Luke Lango of our corporate affiliate InvestorPlace will reveal a unique strategy developed by a master trader that could help you see average winning gains of 267% in only 36 days. Click here to learn more .
Chaikin Analytics' Three-Year Anniversary Gift to You
This month marks the three-year anniversary of a powerful breakthrough from Chaikin Analytics that can help you unlock quicker gains – and better navigate market turbulence – using the Power Gauge. Already, it has isolated dozens of under-the-radar stocks that have jumped by double digits in months and sometimes days. To celebrate, here's their special gift to you .
Big One-Day Drops Don't Signal the End for Gold
My talk might have marked the top of the gold market in the short term. But you should never make a long-term bet and worry about what happens the next day. You've got to take everything in stride .
That's true with gold right now. The metal has sold off from its recent highs. But the overall trend is still solidly up. Take a look...
When you step back and look at a long-term chart, the trend in gold is clear : Prices are still in an uptrend.
And we can expect that to continue...
The rare 5%-plus one-day fall that happened last month isn't a reason to sell. At least, it hasn't been in the past 25 years. Here's what has happened after similar setups since 2000...
But with gold's boom-and-bust nature, buying at the right time is key. And surprisingly, a painful one-day correction can be one of those times.
Similar setups led to gains of 2.1% over three months, 3.9% over six months, and 12.5% over a year. These returns give us good insight into what could be next for the metal...
First, notice that gold tends to underperform a typical buy-and-hold strategy over three and six months. But over a year, it outperforms.
That means we could see continued weakness for gold over the next few months. But the lack of a quick snapback rally doesn't mean the boom is over.
Instead, after a few weak months, this trend will likely kick back into gear. I still think gold will rally over the next few years. And this rare setup shows it.
So while we may see more short-term weakness, now is not the time to give up on gold.