Blank
Your latest episode of Stansberry Investor Hour is ready to enjoy.
"Good Lord, I've seen projects permitted in 30 or 45 days that would have taken a year in previous administrations or in previous years in the U.S." – Nick Hodge
Dear listener,
On this week's Stansberry Investor Hour , Dan and Corey welcome Nick Hodge to the show. Nick is the editor of Underground Alpha at Digest Publishing and an expert natural resource investor.
Nick kicks off the show by discussing how he got into natural resource investing. He says that he began with a focus on clean technology but switched lanes after the great financial crisis hit. Sharing a case study, Nick talks about antimony miner Perpetua Resources and notes that "the smart money is now here" in the natural resource space. Nick also makes his bullish case for $5,000 or $6,000 gold over the next 12 to 18 months – there are more buyers than sellers, the metal is "underowned," and crypto traders continue to enter the space...
These crypto soldiers are training for the gold Army. They were learning about things like fiat currencies and what that meant [eight to 10 years ago]. And they were learning about things like counterparty risk and what that meant. And I think there's still some of those folks and some of that money. That crypto money that's going to come into the gold space could be another driver.
Next, Nick says his specialty is evaluating junior miners, so he dives deep into what he looks for in each company – both in terms of share structure and management. After that, Nick covers human psychology versus the cyclical nature of natural resources, the U.S. outsourcing the production and refining of rare earths and minerals to China, and why the federal government is now scrambling to reverse the outsourcing. He explains that we're still at the very beginning of this growth trend, so there's time for investors to profit for years to come...
The inertia is so great. Like I said, we need 50 million pounds of uranium. We produce less than 1 [million pounds currently]... We had a 12- or 15-year dearth of capital, a dearth of expertise. And that's not solved with a couple of hundred-million-dollar government checks. You have to have real action, right? And you have to have continued investment.
Finally, Nick explains the nuance in precious metals investing, including the difference between heavy and light rare earths. He then shares the name of a technology company he likes today that tracks and digitizes mining-company data. Nick says that it "brings mining out from the opaque nature that it has into a transparent nature." And he closes with a conversation about the importance of investing in precious metals in such rough economic times...
These politicians on either side aren't there for you. You see how they enrich themselves on both sides of the aisle while the middle class continues to erode. And we get this K-shaped recovery ever since COVID and then the vast wealth inequality. So I firmly believe you need to focus inward and on your family and do what's best for you and be an asset owner.
Click on the image below to access the interview with Nick in video format. To listen to the full episode,
visit our website or wherever you get your podcasts.
P.S. Tomorrow, Nick is hosting a free event with 50-plus-year investing veteran Rick Rule about the largest wealth-building opportunity of their careers. As Nick touched on in the podcast, it all has to do with the government investing in critical resource companies to build the U.S.'s defense and national security. Once a stock lands on the White House's unofficial "chosen list," it can soar hundreds or even thousands of percent. If you get into these companies before
Washington gets involved, you can make huge profits. Nick and Rick will cover all that and more tomorrow at 10 a.m. Eastern time. Plus, you'll get a free stock recommendation just for tuning in.
Get all the details here .
This Week's Guest
Previously, Nick founded the Outsider Club and grew it into a major financial publishing powerhouse that reaches hundreds of thousands of investors and brings in tens of millions of dollars in revenue. Over the years, he has made millions for himself and his clients while helping to finance some of the most exciting early-stage companies in the resource, energy, cannabis, and biotech sectors.
Recommended Links:
Which Stock Will the White House Buy Next?
Insiders in Washington have already bought massive stakes in three tiny resource firms, driving them up as much as 200% overnight. Tomorrow, two veterans who've made millions of dollars from the exact type of stock the government is targeting NAME the next stocks in this story. Click here to join them (it's 100% free of charge) .
Until Midnight: Three Legends Share a Master Trader's Breakthrough Strategy
Market experts Louis Navellier, Eric Fry, and Luke Lango of our corporate affiliate InvestorPlace just revealed a unique strategy developed by this master trader that could help you see average winning gains of 267% in only 36 days. Click here to watch before midnight tonight .
Check us out on
YouTube to subscribe to the show. And be sure to follow us on the
social platform X and
Instagram .
Do you want to be part of Investor Hour ? Got any questions or feedback for Dan and Corey? E-mail us at
feedback@investorhour.com or call the listener feedback line at 1-800-381-2357.
You have received this e-mail as part of your subscription to Stansberry Investor Hour . If you no longer want to receive e-mails from Stansberry Investor Hour