Blank
Weekly Market Outlook: We're in 'Extreme Fear' Territory
Welcome to extreme fear.
With weakening jobs market data... persistent inflation... and the Federal Reserve signaling that we might not see more rate cuts at its December meeting, investors are getting increasingly uneasy.
But extreme fear doesn't happen at the top of the market. It happens at the bottom, when everyone is panicking. We saw it during the COVID-19-induced crash, in the throes of the 2022 bear market, and in April of this year after President Donald Trump announced tariffs. Those are extreme-fear situations that marked lows. Extreme greed marks highs.
So when we see extreme fear while stocks hover around new all-time highs, that tells me that what's happening in the markets right now is simply a correction.
Of course, timing matters...
That's why, this week, I'm going to go over a few potential scenarios of where markets could go next. This includes an explosive, best-case-scenario move... more of an elongated correction... or something worse.
Let's start by looking at the Dow Jones Industrial Average...
Last week, the Dow made a new high while other major indexes didn't.
This is a very bullish setup. From the October lows, we've had a Wave I up, a Wave II down, and then a Wave (1) back up again with a possible Wave (2) down. That could extend into a third wave. The next time factors I'm looking at are around Thanksgiving, the first week of December, and then Christmas.
If there's going to be a year-end rally, we should see support hold this week and into Thanksgiving. Then the index would take off higher again. To repeat, this is a very bullish setup in the Dow.
However, we could also see a bullish setup that's not quite as bullish , based on today's extreme fear and the Dow's new high last week. It could be something where the Dow bounces between support and resistance levels (the upper and lower red dashed lines) before the year-end rally. That's what I've depicted with the blue swing line above. This scenario seems rather simple, but sometimes that can be the case.
Now, let's look at the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Index, which tracks thousands of U.S.-listed stocks...
You can see this is a similar type of setup to the Dow. I've outlined the important time-factor dates around Thanksgiving, the first week of December, and Christmas with the vertical red lines.
The NYSE Index topped out in the first week of October and has been going sideways since, moving slightly higher as it does. This is a corrective move. So while the next move higher won't be as explosive as I initially thought, there's no reason to panic.
You don't want to panic into an extreme fear situation while stocks are hovering around new all-time highs.
Now, let's turn to the DAX Index, which tracks 40 major German blue-chip stocks...
The DAX has been chopping sideways in a narrow range for months. There's no sign of an AI-induced bubble top like people have been claiming.
If we continue with the idea that we won't see an explosive move but will still get something bullish based on today's negative sentiment, we could see the DAX chop around a little bit more. Then it would maybe find a low into Thanksgiving and subsequently rally. To me, that's the simplest move.
Wrapping Up
This week, we reviewed a few scenarios of what the markets could do next – explode higher... get more of an elongated correction... or fall 10% or more.
If the worst-case scenario I described above plays out, I'll probably exit our current trades and look to reestablish a long position. However, I don't think that's going to happen. We'd have to see all the promising setups in the indexes break. That's possible, but pretty unlikely.
With this extreme fear and stocks hovering near all-time highs, I don't expect we'll get the type of crash some folks are calling for. It doesn't add up, especially since we're seeing several bullish setups.
So if we see all these support levels hold, like I think they will, I'm going to look to buy in. I'll have more updates for you throughout the week.
Best,
Greg Diamond, CMT
Editor's Note : Below, you'll find this week's video edition of the Weekly Market Outlook. Under the video, I've included several time stamps to outline key topics.
0:41 We're in extreme-fear territory.
1:53 There's a very bullish setup in the Dow.
2:45 We could alternatively see a less bullish setup in the Dow.
3:14 The NYSE Index is showing a corrective move.
4:10 We could see the DAX chop around a little bit more.
5:33 A rare extreme-fear scenario would be a great time to buy.