Blank
Tech stocks took a dive last week. But by making one move, you can play defense in your portfolio...
The AI Build-Out Strikes a Sour Note
By Sean Michael Cummings, analyst, True Wealth
Last Wednesday, OpenAI Chief Financial Officer Sarah Friar put the artificial-intelligence ("AI") bears in a frenzy...
Friar appeared at the Wall Street Journal 's Tech Live conference to discuss the business of AI. But the interview got away from her when she started talking about financing the next wave of growth for OpenAI...
Friar proposed a few sources of funding, including "an ecosystem of banks, private equity, [and] maybe even governmental."
When the interviewer asked her to clarify whether governmental funding meant federal subsidies, Friar replied...
Meaning, first of all, the backstop – the guarantee – that allows the financing to happen.
Friar's word choice comes with uncomfortable echoes of the "too big to fail" era of U.S. banking. When the great financial crisis unfolded in 2008, the government had to step in to subsidize failing banks...
With Friar's remarks on federal backstops for the AI build-out, investors became nervous about OpenAI's finances. And as we'll explain, it wasn't the only reason tech stocks took a dive last week...
Recommended Links:
AIRING TODAY: New Breakthrough Helps You Track Wall Street's Hidden Bets
It's a powerful new breakthrough that gives regular folks the chance to make six figures from a single trade by tracking the hidden bets Wall Street makes every day. And today at 1 p.m. Eastern time, Louis Navellier, Eric Fry, and Luke Lango of our corporate affiliate InvestorPlace will reveal this breakthrough along with the man who created it. Click here to learn more, then tune in at 1 p.m. Eastern time .
Ex-Wall Street Insider: A Historic Pattern Is Repeating, and Gold Could Soar Past $27,000
A seismic event that has played out only four times in history is likely unfolding again. And signs point to gold soaring past a shocking $27,000 an ounce... yet most Americans have no clue it is even happening. Today, a CEO of a publicly traded company and former Goldman Sachs vice president is pulling back the curtain on this strange story playing out in the upper echelons of world finance. And even if you've never owned an ounce of gold, this could impact everything from your investments to your mortgage.
Get the time-sensitive details here .
What to Do After Bad News for AI
Worse still was the White House's response to Friar's comments. Thursday morning, President Donald Trump's "AI czar" David Sacks posted on social media platform X...
There will be no federal bailout for AI. The U.S. has at least 5 major frontier model companies. If one fails, others will take its place.
OpenAI launched into damage control on Thursday. CEO Sam Altman took to X with a long post denying that OpenAI needs government help.
Now, Friar's mention of backstops was likely a slip of the tongue. But after more bad news last week, growing negative sentiment is starting to move the market...
The world's most notorious bear is now shorting the AI trade.
Michael Burry is the founder of Scion Asset Management, a hedge fund that deals heavily in water, farmland, and gold. But he's more famous for his bet against the U.S. housing market during the great financial crisis, which inspired Michael Lewis' 2010 bestseller The Big Short . (Christian Bale played Burry in the film version.)
The real-life Burry remains a major market player. And last Wednesday, his hedge fund revealed a nearly $1.1 billion short against two of Wall Street's biggest AI darlings... Nvidia (NVDA) and Palantir Technologies (PLTR).
Now, Burry isn't infallible. But his bet against AI has folks on edge. Last week, tech stocks charted their worst performance since April.
Sentiment around AI is in the pits today. And many people – Burry chief among them – have speculated that the AI trade is a
bubble getting ready to burst .
It's a nice idea... but the truth is, it's extremely difficult to call the top in bull markets.
What's more, tech stocks have soared nearly 100% since ChatGPT 3.5 launched on November 30, 2022. Anyone who bet against the "AI bubble" would've missed out on tremendous profits over the past three years.
That won't be the case forever. But the point here is that it's risky trying to time the market – especially on the bear side.
Fortunately, there's another way...
Remember, Burry has a reputation to uphold. Taking big, bearish swings against the prevailing narrative is what he's famous for...
But you don't have to hang too much of your portfolio on a single narrative. Instead, you can play defense through proper allocation .
Instead, spread your money across asset classes, such as...
Equal-weight index funds
Precious metals and crypto
Bonds
Cash
AI companies do have a place in your portfolio. But take stock of how much you own. A good rule of thumb is to trim any company that takes up more than 3% of your portfolio.
It's too soon to know whether the bears are right about the AI bubble. But by allocating properly, you don't have to guess.
With diversification, you can
defend your wealth through any market cycle – and live to fight another day.
Add variety to your portfolio today.