Blank
Weekly Market Outlook: Patience Rewarded – Get Ready to Trade the Gold and Silver Correction
The precious metals have enjoyed a meteoric rise this year.
Gold prices soared around 65% from their January lows, hitting a peak of $4,356 an ounce on October 20. Silver's ride has been even more explosive... It has rocketed 80%-plus higher since its January lows, reaching $54.47 an ounce in mid-October.
Obviously, when an asset goes on a year-long tear like those... it catches traders' attention. And people want to get in on the action.
We stayed on the sidelines.
It was clear that gold and silver were at extreme overbought conditions. For example, gold's monthly relative strength index ("RSI") reading was hovering around 90 to 95. (Remember, the scale goes up to 100, and anything over 70 is considered overbought.)
I said it was not worth chasing this rally. And that was the right decision...
Since hitting their highs, gold and silver have both pulled back. So now traders are wondering if gold and silver's moves are over... The answer is absolutely not.
As I'll show you this week, I think the two precious metals are primed to rebound. And now we're watching for an opportunity to trade the metals in the next few weeks.
Let's take a look at what the market is telling us about gold and silver.
How to Know When to Buy
We'll start with gold...
As you can see, gold's Composite Index ("CI"), at the very bottom of the chart, has reached oversold levels. Meanwhile, the RSI (the middle pane) just bounced off its support level, indicated by the dotted red line.
That raises an important question... How do we know when to buy ? This is where Fibonacci patterns become important.
Here's the same chart, just with Fibonacci retracement levels added...
Measuring from gold's February pullback through its October highs, we see a 38.2% Fibonacci retracement level around $3,785 an ounce.
Then, looking at gold's August pullback to that same October high, a 50% retracement would take the metal to roughly that same level – just below $3,800 an ounce. This is creating a Fibonacci confluence zone.
This is important because it would fit with my Elliott Wave counts. The mid-October peak was a clear Wave III, and we're now in the midst of a Wave IV.
Moving forward, I'm looking for one more drop in the next week or so. If gold hits those retracement levels, that would give us a significant low to trade.
In that case, we'd enter some short-term call-option plays on gold.
Finally, let's look at silver....
I've drawn two blue circles and a red line on both the price chart up top and the RSI chart in the middle. That's to illustrate that we already have a positive reversal in the RSI.
Even if silver doesn't reach a new lower low – and instead dips to a higher low – that still sets the stage for the metal to surge.
Wrapping Up
We've seen a huge run-up in precious metals this year, followed by a pullback more recently. But the rally is not over.
Rather, our technicals analysis tells us that we should view the current correction as an opportunity for some short-term trades. So let's wait and see what happens next.
Best,
Greg Diamond, CMT
Editor's Note : Below, you'll find this week's video edition of the Weekly Market Outlook. Under the video, I've included several time stamps to outline key topics.
0:27 We were correct not to chase gold prices higher.
1:02 What gold's RSI and CI tell us today.
1:37 Looking at gold's Fibonacci retracement levels.
2:10 The Elliott Wave count shows gold could get another drop.
2:45 There's opportunity with gold's Fibonacci confluence zone.
3:52 Gold's short-term trading setup.
4:13 Silver is already showing a positive RSI reversal.